# Unordered Series

Let $\mathcal{F} (X)$ be the set of finite subsets of $X$.

## 2.50 Definition
Let A be a set. Let $x: a \in A \rightarrow x_{a}$. (Converges) $\sum \limits_{a \in A} x_{a} = s$ is defined as:
$$ \begin{aligned} 
&\forall \epsilon >0, \; \exists F_{0}\in\mathcal{F}(A), \; \forall F \supset F_{0} \in \mathcal{F}(A), \\
& \qquad |\sum \limits_{a \in F} x_{a}-s| < \epsilon 
\end{aligned}$$
We say it diverges if a bound can't be found such that every $F \supset F_{0}$ is bounded.

## 2.51 proposition
### Given
- $\sum \limits_{a \in A} y_{a}$  converges
- $\sum \limits_{a \in A} x_{a}$  converges
### conclusion
- $\sum \limits_{\alpha \in A} (x_{a} + y_{a}) = \sum \limits_{a \in A} y_{a} + \sum \limits_{a \in A} x_{a}$
-  $\sum \limits_{a \in A} cx_{a} = c\sum \limits_{a \in A} x_{a}$
### intuition
this simply comes from the series before hand

## 2.52 Proposition
If $\forall a \in A, x_{a} \geq 0$ then $\sum \limits_{a \in A} = sup \{ \sum \limits _{a \in F} x_{a} : F \in \mathcal{F} (A) \}$

### intuition
since all $x_{a}$ are positive the limit of the total sum will be the smallest upper bound on the sum. The subset $F$ there will just approach becoming $A$.


## 2.53 Theorem

^c9c6e8

$\sum \limits_{a \in A} x_{a}$ converges iff the $\sum \limits_{a \in A} |x_{a}|$ converges.
### intuition
both sides of $\Leftrightarrow$ hinge on $x=2x^{+} - |x|$
- $\sum \limits_{a \in A} |x_{a}|$ shows convergence of the $\sum \limits_{a \in A} x_{a}$ since $x^{+} \leq |x|$
- $\sum \limits_{a \in A} x_{a}$ shows convergence of absolute because $\sum \limits_{a \in F} x_{a}$ can be bounded for all $F \supset F_{0}$. Then $\sum \limits_{a \in F_{0}} x_{a}^{-}$ can be put on top of this bound to bound $\sum \limits_{a \in A} x_{a}^{+}$ and if that's bound so is $|x|$

## 2.54 Corollary
if $\sum \limits _{a \in A} x_{a}$ converges then $\{ a \neq 0 \in A \}$ is countable
### intuition
- from [[2.5 Unordered series#^c9c6e8 | Theorem 2.53]] we now $\sum \limits _{a \in A} |x_{a}|$ converges therefore the set of $|x_{a}| > 1/n$ is countable and thus the union of that set is countable and thus A is countable.


## 2.55 Theorem
$\sum \limits_{a \in A} x_{a}$ converges iff $\sum \limits_{n=1}^{\infty} \sum \limits_{a \in A_{n}} |x_{a}|$ where $A_{n}$ is a partion of A (ie a subset which doesn't overlap other subsets of that nature)
### proof
- $\Rightarrow$ is shown by saying that a series based on the subset $F$ of the union of partions $A_{k}$ can be represented by a series of which sums up all the $F\cup A_{k}$ which is $<$ the infinite sum of partions $\sum \limits_{n=1}^{\infty} \sum \limits_{a \in A_{n}} |x_{a}|$. then just set $F$ to equal $A$
- $\Leftarrow$ ... too lazy to write this out because I realized how trivial this is but in essence you write that there exists a subset of A, $F$ plus a $\epsilon$ that exceeds a sum of the series of a $N$ partions. Since $F$ and $N$ are abitrary just set them to $A$ and $\infty$ respectively.
### intuition
the series of the set is equal to sum of the partions of the series. even simpler if you break up the series of set A and then add it back it will be the same as adding the regular series (given that either converges)

# 2.56 Corrollary
$\sum \limits _{n=1}^{\infty} |x_{a}|$ converges iff $\sum \limits _{n=1}^{\infty} x_{a}$
### intuition & proof
this is just a special case of [[2.5 Unordered series#^c9c6e8 | Theorem 2.53]] where $A=\mathbb{N}$

# 2.57 Corrolary

^6390b3

$A_{n}$ and $B_{n}$ are seperate partions of $A$. 
 $\sum \limits_{n=1}^{\infty} \sum \limits_{a \in A_{n}} |x_{a}|$ converges iff  $\sum \limits_{n=1}^{\infty} \sum \limits_{a \in B_{n}} |x_{a}|$
 
 ### intuition
 According to [[2.5 Unordered series#^c9c6e8 | Theorem 2.53]] they both equal the convergence of the series $A$.
 
 # 2.58 Theorem
 
 $$ \sum \limits_{n=0}^{\infty} \sum \limits_{m=0}^{\infty} x_{nm} = \sum \limits_{m=0}^{\infty} \sum \limits_{n=0}^{\infty} x_{nm} = \sum \limits_{k=0}^{\infty} \sum \limits_{m+n=k}^{\infty} x_{nm} = \lim_{N \rightarrow \infty} \sum \limits_{n=0}^{N} \sum \limits_{m=0}^{N} x_{nm}$$
 ### intuition
 From [[2.5 Unordered series#^6390b3 | 2.57 Corollary]] we know that the sum of partions of the same set are equal. This just views the partions of the subsets as indices.
 
 # 2.59 Definition (Cauchy Product)
 Let $a_{n}$ and $b_{n}$ be sequences then cauchy product of their series is $\sum c_{n}$ where $c_{n}=\sum \limits_{k=0}^{n} a_{k}b_{n-k}$
 
 # 2.60 Theorem 

^095b59

 If $\sum a_{n}$ and $\sum b_{n}$ is convergent then so is the Cauchy product
 $$ \sum c_{n} = ( \sum a_{n} ) ( \sum b_{n}) $$
 ### intuition
 [[2.5 Unordered series#^095b59 | 2.58]] tells us that a repartioning of a single sequence can be summed anyway. merging two sequence through multiplication we we can repartion them such that they look like the cauchy product.