# 3.1 Spanning


## 3.1 Definition (spanning)
Let $V$ be a vector space over a field $F$. 
1. Linear combination: $x=a_1x_1+ \dots + a_nx_n$ where $\forall i \in [n], \ x_i \in V \text{ and } a_i \in F$
2.  span of $x_1, \dots , x_n$: $\operatorname{Span}(x_1, \dots , x_n)=\{ a_1x_1 + \dots + a_n x_n | a_1, \dots , a_n \in F \}$
3.  $x_1, \dots , x_n$ span $V$ if $\forall x \in V$ is a linear combination of $x_1, \dots , x_n$


## 3.2 Examples
- the set of $(n\times m)$-matrices $E_{ij}$ where every entry is zero except $e_{ij}=1$ form a spanning set of the vector space $M_{n \times m}(F)$
- $\mathbb{P}_n = Span(t^0, \dots , t^n)$ the field being $\mathbb{R}$


## 3.3 Proposition
Let $V$ be a vector space over a field $F$. Let $x_1, \dots , x_n \in V$.
1. $\operatorname{Span}(x_1, \dots , x_n)$ is the smallest subspace of $V$ containing $x_1, \dots , x_n$
2. $x\in \operatorname{Span}(x_1, \dots , x_n) \Rightarrow \operatorname{Span}(x_1, \dots , x_n) = \operatorname{Span}(x_1, \dots , x_n, x)$
3. $\forall a_i \in F, \operatorname{Span}(x_1, \dots , x_n)=\operatorname{Span}(x_1, x_2-a_2x_1 \dots , x_n-a_nx_1)$

# 3.2 Linear independence

## 3.4 Definition (linear independence over  $F$)
$V$ is a vector space over a field $F$. $x_1, \dots , x_n (\in V)$ are linearly independent (over $F$) if:
$$
\forall a_1, \dots, a_n \in F, (a_1x_1+a_nx_n=0_V \Rightarrow a_1=\dots = a_n = 0_F)
$$

## 3.5 Example (of linear independence)
- $\sin , \cos \in \mathbb{R}^\mathbb{R}$ are linearly indepenedent
$\forall s \in \mathbb{R}, \ a \sin {s} + b \cos {s} = 0$ (then plug $s=0 , \frac \pi 2$)

## 3.6 Proposition 
1. $x_1 \in V$ is lin. indep. $\Leftrightarrow$ $x_1 \neq 0_V$
2. All subsets of lin. indep. vectors are lin. indep.
3. if any vector is $0_V$ or $x_i=x_j$ then the set is linearly dependent
4. if vectors are lin. dep. then there is one that is a lin. combination of the others
5. $x \in \operatorname{span}(x_1, \dots,x_n) \Rightarrow x_1, \dots , x_n , x \text{ are lin. dep.}$

# 3.3 Bases

## 3.7 Definition (basis)
($V$ is vector space over $F$)
$x_1, \dots, x_n$ is a basis of $V$ if:
1. $\operatorname{span}(x_1, \dots , x_n)=V$
2. $x_1, \dots, x_n \text{ are lin. indep.}$

## 3.9 Proposition 
The following are the same:
1. $x_1, \dots , x_n$ form a basis of $V$
2. $x_1, \dots , x_n$ form a min. spanning set of $V$
3. $x_1, \dots , x_n$ form a max. lin. indep. subset of $V$
4. $\forall x \in V$ can be written as a lin. comb. $x_1, \dots , x_n$

# 3.4 Dimension
## 3.11 Theorem
$x_1, \dots , x_n$ and $y_1, \dots , y_n$ are basis of $V$ => $m=n$

## 3.12 Definition (dimension)
$x_1, \dots , x_n \in V$ form a basis of $V$ then $V$ has $n$ dimensions, $\operatorname{dim}_F(V)$

## 3.14 Proposition
$y_1, \dots, y_m \in V$ are lin. indep => $m \leq \operatorname{dim}_F(V)$

## 3.15 Corollary 3.15
$x_1 , \dots , x_n$ form a basis if two of the three are true:
1. $x_1, \dots , x_n$ are lin. indep.
2. $x_1, \dots , x_n$ span $V$
3. $n = \operatorname{dim}_F(V)$